DATABASE MANAGEMENT DAY 7


Before Database:

	1) No Security

	2) Redundancy

	3) Every time creates duplicate copies and master data not related

	4) Will not store all data polymorphisms.

Database Management:

Database: A database is set of interrelated files, stored with minimum redundancy, to serve many users work concurrently.


DBMS (Database Management System)
	
	A software that which allows you to perform transactions on a data like adding new data, modifying already existing data and removing unwanted data known as DBMS.

Objectives:

	1) Provides an efficient and convenient environment, that which allows you to store and retrieve data
	2) Granting access on data to the users based on their credentials.

Drawbacks of DBMS:

	1) Data Redundancy

	2) Risk to Data Integrity -> Integrity means correctness of data i.e. Am I able to trust the data ?

	3) Data Isolation -> To parallel concurrent i.e. the newspaper website don't work on midnight due to server down

	4) Difficult Access to Data -> Due to ambiguity of the table i.e. Table with same name

	5) Unsatisfactory Security Measures -> There is no protection 

Data Modeling: (Description of organizing the data fields such as what are the important and mandatory data are there  and calculated data are there)
		
		It is the description of organization of data in the database. It also describes the relationship among the data and any constraints that have to be defined on 		data.

	1) Object Based Logical Model: Focuses on describing the data, and the relationship among the data and any constraints defined.

		ER Model (Entity-Relationship model)

		Entity is a thing that which can be easily identified.

		Relation: It is an association among various entities.

		Attribute: It is the property of the Entity. E.g. One Student Entity have lot of attributes like id, name, rollno, etc... 
			   

		TYPES OF RELATIONSHIPS

		1) One to One : One Record in first entity will have one corresponding record in the second entity known as one to one relationship.

		2) One to Many : One record in the first entity will have many corresponding records in second entity known as one to many.

		3) Many to Many : Many Records in first entity will have many corresponding records in the second entity known as many to many relationship.

		4) Many to One
	
	2) Record Based Logical Model 



	